All right.
So, we're gonna start off by talking about
manipulating data using the StringBuilder.
Now we've already previously discussed
that strings are immutable in Java,
but StringBuilder objects are not.
Strings should always be used
unless the StringBuilder offers an advantage
in terms of simpler code or better performance.
For example, if you need to concatenate
a large number of strings such as a temporary error message
or dynamic XML or HTML,
then appending to a StringBuilder object is more efficient,
and that's of course because, say, new strings
have been created time and time again.
Each StringBuilder has a capacity,
which is the number of character spaces allocated to it.
Capacity is automatically extended as additions are made
to the StringBuilder object.
Now, in terms of creating StringBuilder objects,
you can use one of the following constructors.
Firstly, the default or empty constructor, StringBuilder()
that builds an empty StringBuilder with a capacity of 16,
in other words, 16 empty elements.
So, the capacity in that scenario is 16, no surprises here.
Next, if you use a constructor that accepts a CharSequence,
then the StringBuilder object with the same characters
as the specified CharSequence plus an extra 16
empty trailing elements would be created.
So, the capacity therefore is cs.length() plus 16.
All right.
Next to that, there's another constructor
that allows an int to be passed to it,
and that's the capacity.
So, basically what happens in that scenario
is that an empty StringBuilder
with the specified initial capacity is actually created.
So, the capacity is obviously is whatever was passed
to that particular constructor.
And lastly, a string can also be passed
as a constructor to StringBuilder.
And in that scenario, the StringBuilder object
with the same characters as the specified string
plus an extra 16 empty trailing elements will be created.
So, it can therefore determine the capacity
by s.length() plus 16.
All right, so that's enough in the theory side of it.
Let's explore constructors and capability
with a bit of code.
So, I've created a new project
for this section of the course called StringBuilder.
Let's create our first class.
We'll call it StringBuilderCreation.
All right.
There's some initial code that I pasted in there.
If you go through and have a look there
you can see that we're creating a StringBuilder
based on the various constructors that I talked about.
So, let's actually run that.
All right, so there's the output.
And it's all fairly straightforward as you can see there.
So, that's StringBuilderCreation.
Now, the StringBuilder class doesn't have
as many comparative methods as the string.
So, let's create another class now
called StringBuilderTestComparators,
and I'm gonna paste some code in
and we'll actually have a look at the code,
basically the appropriate comparator code.
Okay, there's the code.
So, we're creating some test data.
So you can see that we're using the == comparator there,
then .equals, we're actually using that to do a comparison,
and that obviously comes from java.lang.Object.
There's a .compareTo method defined
on the StringBuilder object,
we're going to invoke that as well.
Then there's a .equals is used to compare
String Values of StringBuilder objects.
And finally we can use == on StringBuilder objects
among the toString method that's called
from the StringBuilder objects.
So, let's just run that.
So, you can see the output from this code
is sb == sb2 is false, and looking at sb and sb2 again.
There's our two StringBuilder objects
and basically you can see from this output
that the == as well as the equals method
are both false, that's the first two lines of output.
The equals method for StringBuilder
is the inherited method equals from object
and that will simply just calls the == operator
on the objects themselves.
StringBuilder implements the comparable interface
so it does have it's own compareTo method
which we've called and that is like
the string compareTo method.
All right, so you can see that the compareTo in that case
was zero, and sb.toString().equals(sb2.toString())
is equal true in that scenario.
Then the == test, the last one, returned false.
The StringBuilder Class has a series
of append methods and insert methods.
Now, the append methods add data to the end
of the current value of the StringBuilder,
expanding capability or capacity rather, if needed.
The insert methods insert the specified data
into the StringBuilder value
at the specified starting index.
I'm gonna show some samples of both
in the code I'm about to paste in.
But first though, what we'll is we'll demonstrate
the append methods.
And note that with the StringBuilder
you can chain your commands, and the reasons for that
is the methods return a self-reference.
All right, so let's go ahead and create that new class.
StringBuilderAppendInsert, okay.
Paste in the code.
And you can see that I've put in a comment there
that there's many flavours of append, quite a few there.
And you can see that I'm actually chaining calls
again because the methods themselves
return a self-reference we can actually do that.
So, let's actually run this now.
And you can see that the individual calls
to append have created a string
which we're actually using to print out here
our line 40, and we've got the,
basically we've got the length
and the capacity output as well.
So, that's append, and you find that insert methods
are very similar to append.
What I'll do for that is I'll just
paste some code into this method,
into this class rather than creating a new one.
Okay, you can see some of the many insert methods
very similar to append as I mentioned.
The code is very similar.
Let's run that.
And you can see we've got the output,
basically identical to what happened last time
when we used append.
There shouldn't probably be many surprises there.
But what I will do now is touch on a few
of the StringBuilder methods that are not methods
similar to String methods.
It is important to note, however,
that the append/insert methods in StringBuilder
are changing the value of the StringBuilder object,
and not returning a new value from the method calls
as do the String's concat methods.
Very important that you make that distinction.
All right, so for this next bit of code,
let's actually create yet a new class.
And we call this one StringBuilderManipulation.
Okay, so there's our code.
All right, so in this example code you can see
what we're creating and initialising,
our StringBuilder Object on line 11,
using the deleteCharAt method to delete
a specific character at a specific position.
And we're using the indexOf to find the position,
which in this case is the comma.
So, we're deleting the comma from the string effectively.
There's also a delete, and the example that I'm using there
is basically deleting everything
after where the comma used to be.
There's an sb.reverse() which just is
what you think it will be,
and we'll show the output to that shortly.
Now, you can assign the reverse method's result
to a different StringBuilder variable, which is interesting,
and you can see on line 29 I'm doing that.
And now that I've done that,
you've got two StringBuilder references
pointing to the same mutable text.
So, let's run this code.
And you can see in that last scenario
we've appended only the first StringBuilder
but our printout has both StringBuilders
because they're both referencing or pointing
to the same mutable text,
both are updated with the append.
So, one of the very few methods
that doesn't return a self-reference is subString.
So, it's similar to our mains,
so I'll paste in some more code.
If we run this.
So you can see that in the case of subString
it returns a new String Object and not a self-reference
to the StringBooter Object itself,
that's why subString has the value of World
after the call to sb.substring.
And finally, just a note on String,
StringBuffer, and StringBuilder.
Now, StringBuffer won't be on this exam,
but it's interesting to note that it's out there
if you need a thread safe but mutable object
with a string value.
Right, now in terms of their differences,
String, it's immutable as we've discussed.
In general I would suggest to use
Strings versus a StringBuilder when your strings are short
and most likely to be re-used throughout the application.
StringBuffer on the other hand, well that's mutable,
and it was the only option before JDK 5,
keep in mind that it's also threadsafe.
All public methods for StringBuffer are synchronised
which have a negative impact on performance.
Now, you'll generally wanna use StringBuffer
if the attribute is being accessed
by multiple concurrent threads.
And finally, StringBuilder.
It's mutable and introduced in JDK 5,
it's Garbage Collected, and capacity can be adjusted
as we've seen in this video.
Now, you wanna use StringBuilder versus String
if you're dynamically building large string data sets,
like log statements or generated HTML/XML
or something of that nature.
All right, so I'm gonna finish the video here.
In the next one, we'll have a look at some of the
out of the ordinary concepts of StringBuilder.
See you in the next video.